# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Project Reflection 

Architecture
•	Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
For this project, we used two different approaches. The first approach used Express HTML and JavaScript allowed the dynamic rendering of HTML and JSON files using Handlebars. With this approach, each time a user changed pages, it would send a request to the server which would respond by rendering the corresponding page. With the SPA approach, the Angular framework was utilized with TypeScript files. The SPA is all loaded in the beginning, removing the need for the server to update each page. The only information the SPA needed to send or receive was data.
•	Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
A NoSQL database has several advantages over a SQL database four our backend. First of all, MongoDB utilizes a BSON format, which works incredibly well with JSON, making exchanging data easy. NoSQL databases are also more flexible and often more scalable than SQL databases. This just allows future updates and growth to happen more easily.
Functionality
•	How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON is a data format that can be used to easily send information between the frontend, API, and database. Javascript is a programming language that is used to help create the application’s functionality. JSON can be used to create a consistent data structure that simplifies the process of collecting, sending, and retrieving information. By setting up both the frontend and backend to read and send data in the JSON format, it allows for easy communication.
•	Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
Several refactors were made to improve functionality and the UI. One of the first refactors that was made was utilizing handlebars and layouts so that repeated components of the HTML pages such as headers, navigation, and footers could easily be reused. We also refactored much of the HTML into JSON that could be reused and compartmentalized for cleaner code.

Testing
•	Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
Testing the API was simple at first. To make sure that the API was sending and retrieving data correctly, we utilized Postman and sent information to the designated endpoint using the correct JSON format. From there, we would be able to determine if the request was successful, as well as determine if the output was what we were expecting.
After security implementations, the application was set up to not accept certain API requests without a valid security token. To test the API now, you would need to send a POST request to the /login endpoint with valid credentials and use the token it returned to submit further API requests.
The various methods such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE interact with the endpoints and the given data so that the API can successfully perform the intended function in the database and return the correct data.
Security in a full stack application should be implemented in many different places. The type of security described above prevents unauthorized users from utilizing the API and making changes or seeing information that they are not permitted to. There are other various types of security such as input validation on both the frontend and backend code that ensures that entered information is valid and in the expected format. There is also encryption, which ensures that stored information is not readable by anybody who can access it in an unintended way. Then there are more ways to implement security such as threat monitoring, MFA, assigning roles, and much more. These security methods and tools can help create a full application that protects its users and stored data.
Reflection
•	How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
  This course has helped me in reaching my professional goals by giving me a better understanding of full stack development and all of the aspects that go into it. Full stack development is important to understand, even if you specialize in a specific area such as frontend, backend, or automation and testing. The reason for this is when you understand how the various components of an application interact with each other, you will be better able to implement functional code that works well with all areas of the application. By understanding these concepts, not only am I better able to create an entire application, but I also now have a better understanding of both frontend and backend pieces, and how they interact.
